releases: add TiDB 4.0.8 release notes (#4087)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-4.0.8.md

    - Add pessimistic lock keys runtime information [#20199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20199)
    - Add two extra time-consuming sections in runtime information and trace span [#20187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20187)
    - Add transaction commit runtime information in slow log [#20185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20185)
    - Fix inaccurate error info for year column out of range. [#20170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20170)
    - Fix unexpected 'invalid auto-id' error in pessimistic txn retry. [#20134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20134)
    - Fix an issue that alter enum/set type does not check constraint [#20046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20046)
    - Fix cop task runtime information is wrong in the concurrent executor. [#19947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19947)
    - Fix cannot select session scope explicitly with unchangeable variables [#19944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19944)

+ TiKV

    - Error_code: re-format metafile [#8877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8877)
    - Move counter metric processing into the scheduler worker. [#8872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8872)

>     - Fix the bug that mutex conflict of encryption makes pd-worker deal with heartbeat slow [#8869](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8869)

Reviewer: Should move to bug fix part.

>     - Raftstore: record the noop entry message temporarily like pending_votes [#8864](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8864)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Record the noop entry message temporarily like pending_votes in raftstore [#8864](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8864)
```

>     - Config: enable dynamically change config pessimistic-txn.pipelined [#8853](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8853)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Enable dynamically change config pessimistic-txn.pipelined [#8853](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8853)
```

>     - Add the Fast-Tune panel page as performance assisted diagnosis [#8804](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8804)

Reviewer: Should move it to improvement part.

    - Enabling profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)
    - Fix generating memory profile [#8790](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8790)

>     - Fixed failure to backup database on GCS when storage class was provided. [#8763](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8763)

Reviewer: Should move them to bug fix part.

>     - Add `security.redact-info-log` config, which redacts user data from logs [#8746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8746)

Reviewer: Should move it to improvement part.

+ PD

    - TiDB Dashboard: Fix a bug that KeyViz may panic [#3096](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3096)
    - Generate the metafile of errors [#3090](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3090)
    - Fix the bug that PD might panic if there is down store with 10 minutes [#3069](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3069)
    - Add additional info for operator [#3009](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3009)

+ TiFlash

    - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
    - Fix bug: waiting index during learner read may cost long time if proxy can not catch up latest raft lease info
    - Add errors.toml to support standard error code
    - Fix bug: proxy write too much region state info to kv engine while replaying outdated raft log

+ Tools

>     - BR
> 
>         * Add errors.toml. [#563](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/563)
> 
>     - TiCDC
> 
>         * Fix a bug that processor always flushes task status to the etcd because of incorrect mod revision cache. [#1019](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1019)
>         * Support to replicate tables without explicit row id [#1010](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1010)
>         * <p><em>Sourced from <a href="https://github.com/junit-team/junit4/releases">junit's releases</a>.</em></p> [#1001](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1001)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# TiCDC

## New Features

- Supports snapshot level consistency replication in time [#932](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/932)

## Improvements

- Print statistics in MySQL sink [#1023](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1023)

## Bug Fixes

- Fix unexpected exit due to updating GC safepoint error [#979](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/979)
- Fix task status is always flushed because of incorrect mod revision cache [#1017](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1017)
- Fix Maxwell empty messages [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/978)

# BR

## Improvements

- Speed up restore by pipeline split and restore [#428](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/428)
- Support restoring PD schedulers manually [#530](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/530)
- Use pause instead of remove schedulers [#551](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/551)

## Bug Fixes

- Fix send on closed channel panic during restore [#559](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/559)

# Dumpling

## Improvements

- Support writing directly to S3 [#155](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/155)
- Support dumping view [#158](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/158)
- Support dumping all generated column table [#166](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/166)

# TiDB-Lightning

## Improvements

- Support multi bytes csv delimiter and separator [#406](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/406)
- Speed up restore by disable some pd scheduler [#408](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/408)
- Use gc ttl api for checksum gc safepoint in v4.0 cluster [#396](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/396)

## Bug Fixes

- Fix a bug about wrong column info [#420](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/420)
- Fix infinity loop in retry get region in local mode [#418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/418)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.8 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.8 Release Notes

> Release date: October 29, 2020

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Release date: October 30, 2020
```

TiDB version: 4.0.8

## New Features

+ TiDB

    - Support the new aggregate function `APPROX_PERCENTILE` [#20197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20197)

+ TiFlash

    - Support pushing down `CAST` functions

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Support snapshot-level consistency replication [#932](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/932)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Support snapshot-level consistent replication [#932](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/932)
```

    - Add the `table_storage_stats` system table [#20431](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20431)
    - Add the RPC runtime statistical information for the `INSERT`/`UPDATE`/`REPLACE` statement [#20430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20430)
    - Add the operator information in the result of `EXPLAIN FOR CONNECTION` [#20384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20384)
    - Adjust the TiDB error log to the `DEBUG` level for the client connection/disconnection activities [#20321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20321)
    - Add monitoring metrics for Coprocessor Cache [#20293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20293)
    - Add the runtime information of pessimistic lock keys [#20199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20199)
    - Add two extra sections of time consumption information in the runtime information and `trace` span [#20187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20187)
    - Add the runtime information of transaction commit in the slow log [#20185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20185)
    - Disable the index merge join [#20599](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20599)

>     - Add the ISO 8601 and timezone supports for temporal string literal [#20670](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20670)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add the ISO 8601 and timezone supports for temporal string literals [#20670](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20670)
```

+ TiKV

    - Add the **Fast-Tune** panel page to assist performance diagnostics [#8804](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8804)
    - Add the `security.redact-info-log` configuration item, which redacts user data from logs [#8746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8746)
    - Reformat the metafile of error codes [#8877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8877)
    - Enable dynamically changing the `pessimistic-txn.pipelined` configuration [#8853](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8853)
    - Enable the memory profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)

+ PD

    - Generate the metafile of errors [#3090](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3090)
    - Add the additional information for the operator [#3009](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3009)

+ TiFlash

    - Add monitoring metrics of Raft logs
    - Add monitoring metrics of memory usage for `cop` tasks

>     - Make the `min`/`max` index more accurate in the case of deleted data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Make the `min`/`max` index more accurate when data is deleted
```

    - Improve query performance in the case of a small data volume
    - Add the `errors.toml` file to support the standard error code

+ Tools

    + Backup and Restore (BR)

>         - Speed up restore by pipeline split and restore [#427](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/427)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Speed up the restore process by pipelining `split` and `ingest` [#427](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/427)
```

    - Fix the possible wrong result of the propagate column optimization for the hybrid type column [#20297](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20297)
    - Fix the panic that might occur when storing outdated plans from the plan cache [#20246](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20246)
    - Fix the bug that the returned result is mistakenly truncated if `FROM_UNIXTIME` and `UNION ALL` are used together [#20240](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20240)
    - Fix the issue that wrong results might be returned when the `Enum` type value is converted to the `Float` type [#20235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20235)
    - Fix the possible panic of `RegionStore.accessStore` [#20210](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20210)
    - Fix the wrong result returned when sorting the maximum unsigned integer in `BatchPointGet` [#20205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20205)
    - Fix the bug that the coercibilities of `Enum` and `Set` are wrong [#20364](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20364)
    - Fix an issue of ambiguous `YEAR` conversion [#20292](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20292)

>     - Fix the issue of wrong reported result because the **KV duration** panel contains `store0` [#20260](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20260)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of wrong reported result when the **KV duration** panel contains `store0` [#20260](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20260)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `Float` type data is mistakenly inserted regardless of the `out of range` error [#20252](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20252)
    - Fix the bug that the generated column does not handle bad `NULL` values [#20216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20216)
    - Fix the inaccurate error information for the `YEAR` type data that is out of range [#20170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20170)
    - Fix the unexpected `invalid auto-id` error that might occur during the pessimistic transaction retry [#20134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20134)
    - Fix the issue that the constraint is not checked when using `ALTER TABLE` to change the `Enum`/`Set` type [#20046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20046)
    - Fix the wrong runtime information of `cop` tasks recorded when multiple operators are used for concurrency [#19947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19947)
    - Fix the issue that read-only system variables cannot be explicitly selected as the session variables [#19944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19944)

>     - Fix the issue that the repetition of the `ORDER BY` condition might cause sub-optimal execution plans [#20333](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20333)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the duplicate `ORDER BY` condition might cause sub-optimal execution plans [#20333](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20333)
```

    - Fix the issue that the generated metric profile might fail if the font size exceeds the maximum allowable value [#20637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20637)

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the bug that the mutex conflict in encryption causes pd-workers to process heartbeats slowly [#8869](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8869)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that the mutex conflict in encryption causes pd-worker to process heartbeats slowly [#8869](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8869)
```

    - Fix the issue that the memory profile is mistakenly generated [#8790](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8790)
    - Fix the failure to back up databases on GCS when the storage class is specified [#8763](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8763)
    - Fix the bug that a learner cannot find a leader when the Region is restarted or newly split [#8864](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8864)

+ PD

    - Fix a bug that Key Visualizer of TiDB Dashboard might cause PD panic in some cases [#3096](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3096)
    - Fix the bug that PD might panic if a PD store is down for more than 10 minutes [#3069](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3069)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue of wrong timestamp in the log message

>     - Fix the issue that during the multi-path TiFlash deployment, the wrong capacity causes the creation of TiFlash replicas to fail

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that during the multi-disk TiFlash deployment, the wrong capacity causes the creation of TiFlash replicas to fail
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Prioritize low selectivity indexes in the greedy search procedure of `Selectivity()` [#20154](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20154)
    - Record more RPC runtime information in cop runtime stats [#19264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19264)
    - Speed up parse slow-log when query slow_query. [#20556](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20556)
    - When verifying potential new plans, plan binding will now wait before timing out worse plans so that more debug information can be written to the TiDB error log. [#20530](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20530)
    - Add execution retry time in slow log and slow_query. [#20495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20495)
    - Add execution retry count in slow log and slow_query. [#20494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20494)
    - Add system table `table_storage_stats` [#20431](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20431)
    - Add rpc runtime stats information for insert/update/replace statement. [#20430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20430)
    - Add executor information in `explain for connection` result. [#20384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20384)

>     - Duplicate order by conditions are eliminated [#20333](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20333)

Reviewer 4: Please remove it to 'bugfix' section.

    - Fix a bug that the generated column doesn't handle bad null value [#20216](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20216)
    - Add pessimistic lock keys runtime information [#20199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20199)
    - Add two extra time-consuming sections in runtime information and trace span [#20187](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20187)
    - Add transaction commit runtime information in slow log [#20185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20185)
    - Fix inaccurate error info for year column out of range. [#20170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20170)
    - Fix unexpected 'invalid auto-id' error in pessimistic txn retry. [#20134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20134)
    - Fix an issue that alter enum/set type does not check constraint [#20046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20046)
    - Fix cop task runtime information is wrong in the concurrent executor. [#19947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19947)
    - Fix cannot select session scope explicitly with unchangeable variables [#19944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19944)

+ PD

>     - TiDB Dashboard: Fix a bug that KeyViz may panic [#3096](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3096)

Reviewer 5: Move to bugFix

>     - Generate the metafile of errors [#3090](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3090)

Reviewer 5: move to improvement

>     - Fix the bug that PD might panic if there is down store with 10 minutes [#3069](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3069)

Reviewer 5: move to bug fix

>     - Add additional info for operator [#3009](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3009)

Reviewer 5: LGTM

>     - Add additional info for operator [#3009](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3009)

Reviewer 5: move to improvement

---
title: TiDB 4.0.8 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.8 Release Notes

Release date: October 29, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.8

## New Features

+ TiDB

    - Support new aggregate function APPROX_PERCENTILE [#20197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20197)

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

+ TiFlash

    - Support CAST functions push down

```

+ TiFlash

    - Support pushing down `CAST` functions

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Support snapshot-level consistency replication [#932](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/932)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Prioritize low selectivity indexes in the greedy search procedure of `Selectivity()` [#20154](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20154)
    - Record more RPC runtime information in cop runtime stats [#19264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19264)

>     - Introduce errors documentation generator to generate errors.toml [#20564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20564)

Reviewer 4: We don't need this PR in the release note, it's not related to the end-user at all.

Reviewer 3: Removed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/4087/commits/19ef004986a496e2b6616d2185782cb04dbe1b4f

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Add metrics about applying Raft logs
>     - Make the min-max index more accurate if there are deleted data
>     - Improved query performance under small volume data
>     - Support CAST functions push down
>     - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
>     - Add errors.toml to support standard error code
> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Add metrics about applying Raft logs
    - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
    - Make the min-max index more accurate if there are deleted data
    - Improved query performance under small volume data
    - Add errors.toml to support standard error code

```

>     - Config: check if valid storage by simple indexing [#20342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20342)

Reviewer 4: We don't need this PR in the release note, it's not related to the end-user at all.

Reviewer 3: Removed in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/4087/commits/19ef004986a496e2b6616d2185782cb04dbe1b4f

    - Fix corrupted default value for bit type column. [#20340](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20340)
    - Fix overflow error when convert bit to int64 [#20312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20312)
    - Avoid propagate column optimization for Hybrid type. [#20297](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20297)
    - Fix panic when storing outdated plans from plan cache [#20246](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20246)
    - Fix a bug that `from_unixtime` + `union all` returns truncated result [#20240](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20240)
    - Fix enum value convert to float failed [#20235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20235)
    - Fix panic in RegionStore.accessStore. [#20210](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20210)
    - Fix sort result for max unsigned int in batch-point-get [#20205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20205)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the bug that mutex conflict of encryption makes pd-worker deal with heartbeat slow [#8869](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8869)
    - Fix generating memory profile [#8790](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8790)

>     - Fixed failure to backup database on GCS when storage class was provided. [#8763](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8763)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix failure to backup database on GCS when storage class was provided. [#8763](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8763)
```

    - Add transaction commit runtime information in slow log [#20185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20185)
    - Fix inaccurate error info for year column out of range. [#20170](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20170)
    - Fix unexpected 'invalid auto-id' error in pessimistic txn retry. [#20134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20134)
    - Fix an issue that alter enum/set type does not check constraint [#20046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20046)
    - Fix cop task runtime information is wrong in the concurrent executor. [#19947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19947)
    - Fix cannot select session scope explicitly with unchangeable variables [#19944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19944)

+ TiKV

    - Error_code: re-format metafile [#8877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8877)
    - Move counter metric processing into the scheduler worker. [#8872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8872)
    - Record the noop entry message temporarily like pending_votes in raftstore [#8864](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8864)
    - Enable dynamically change config pessimistic-txn.pipelined [#8853](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8853)

>     - Enabling profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Enable profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)
```

>     - Enabling profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)

Reviewer: Move them to `Improvements`

Reviewer: And also remove the `Move counter metric processing into the scheduler worker. [#8872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8872)`

Reviewer: Move `Record the noop entry message...` to bug fix pard and change it to `Fix the bug that a learner can't find a leader after restarting or splitting`

+ TiKV

    - Add the Fast-Tune panel page as performance assisted diagnosis [#8804](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8804)
    - Add `security.redact-info-log` config, which redacts user data from logs [#8746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8746)
    - Error_code: re-format metafile [#8877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8877)
    - Enable dynamically change config pessimistic-txn.pipelined [#8853](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8853)
    - Enable profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)

+ PD

    - Generate the metafile of errors [#3090](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3090)
    - Add additional info for operator [#3009](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3009)

+ TiFlash

    - Add metrics about applying Raft logs
    - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
    - Make the min-max index more accurate if there are deleted data
    - Improved query performance under small volume data
    - Add errors.toml to support standard error code

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Print statistics in MySQL sink [#1023](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1023)

    + Backup and Restore (BR)

>         - Speed up restore by pipeline split and restore [#428](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/428)

Reviewer 3: @overvenus This note seems inconsistent with the #428 PR. Could you help confirm?

    - Speed up parse slow-log when query slow_query. [#20556](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20556)
    - When verifying potential new plans, plan binding will now wait before timing out worse plans so that more debug information can be written to the TiDB error log. [#20530](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20530)
    - Add execution retry time in slow log and slow_query. [#20495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20495)
    - Add execution retry count in slow log and slow_query. [#20494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20494)
    - Add system table `table_storage_stats` [#20431](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20431)
    - Add rpc runtime stats information for insert/update/replace statement. [#20430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20430)
    - Add executor information in `explain for connection` result. [#20384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20384)
    - Fix a bug that the coercibilities of enum and set are wrong. [#20364](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20364)
    - Config: check if valid storage by simple indexing [#20342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20342)

>     - Duplicate order by conditions are eliminated [#20333](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20333)

Reviewer 4: This is a bugfix.

---
title: TiDB 4.0.8 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.8 Release Notes

Release date: October 29, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.8

## New Features

+ TiDB

    - Support new aggregate function APPROX_PERCENTILE [#20197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20197)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Supports snapshot level consistency replication in time [#932](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/932)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Prioritize low selectivity indexes in the greedy search procedure of `Selectivity()` [#20154](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20154)
    - Record more RPC runtime information in cop runtime stats [#19264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19264)

+ TiKV

    - Add the Fast-Tune panel page as performance assisted diagnosis [#8804](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8804)
    - Add `security.redact-info-log` config, which redacts user data from logs [#8746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8746)

+ TiFlash

    - Add metrics about applying Raft logs
    - Make the min-max index more accurate if there are deleted data
    - Improved query performance under small volume data
    - Support CAST functions push down

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
    - Add errors.toml to support standard error code

```

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Add metrics about applying Raft logs
>     - Make the min-max index more accurate if there are deleted data
>     - Improved query performance under small volume data
>     - Support CAST functions push down
> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Add metrics about applying Raft logs
    - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
    - Make the min-max index more accurate if there are deleted data
    - Improved query performance under small volume data
    - Support CAST functions push down
    - Add errors.toml to support standard error code

```

    - Fix a bug that `from_unixtime` + `union all` returns truncated result [#20240](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20240)
    - Fix enum value convert to float failed [#20235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20235)
    - Fix panic in RegionStore.accessStore. [#20210](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20210)
    - Fix sort result for max unsigned int in batch-point-get [#20205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20205)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the bug that mutex conflict of encryption makes pd-worker deal with heartbeat slow [#8869](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8869)
    - Fix generating memory profile [#8790](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8790)
    - Fixed failure to backup database on GCS when storage class was provided. [#8763](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8763)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix wrong timestamp in log message
    - Fix the issue that when deployed with multi-paths, the wrong capacity make creating TiFlash replicas failed
    - Fix the bug that TiFlash could throw errors about broken data files after the restart
    - Fix the issue that broken files may be left on disk after TiFlash crashed

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix bug: waiting index during learner read may cost long time if proxy can not catch up latest raft lease info
    - Fix bug: proxy write too much region state info to kv engine while replaying outdated raft log
    
```

    - Fix cannot select session scope explicitly with unchangeable variables [#19944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19944)

+ TiKV

    - Error_code: re-format metafile [#8877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8877)
    - Move counter metric processing into the scheduler worker. [#8872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8872)
    - Record the noop entry message temporarily like pending_votes in raftstore [#8864](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8864)
    - Enable dynamically change config pessimistic-txn.pipelined [#8853](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8853)
    - Enabling profiling features by default [#8801](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8801)

+ PD

    - TiDB Dashboard: Fix a bug that KeyViz may panic [#3096](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3096)
    - Generate the metafile of errors [#3090](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3090)
    - Fix the bug that PD might panic if there is down store with 10 minutes [#3069](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3069)
    - Add additional info for operator [#3009](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3009)

> 
> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Add metrics about memory usage for cop task
>     - Fix bug: waiting index during learner read may cost long time if proxy can not catch up latest raft lease info
>     - Add errors.toml to support standard error code
>     - Fix bug: proxy write too much region state info to kv engine while replaying outdated raft log

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```
